docs: :memo: update requirements doc (#876)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/architecture/requirements.qmd

title: "Requirements"
---

> Things Sprout must do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sprout must:
```
To fit with 
"run on [...]" , "integrate GDPR [...] ", "be able to [...]" etc., maybe?

-   Run on Windows, MacOS, and Linux (likely on servers): Our potential
    users work on any of these systems, so we need to design for the
    most commonly used operating systems.
-   Integrate GDPR, privacy, and security compliance: Our target users
    work with health data, so this is vital to consider

> -   Use remotely on servers and locally on computers: The location where

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Run remotely on servers and locally on computers: The location where
```

    data are stored should be flexible based on the needs and
    restrictions of the user.
-   Be able to handle a variety of data file sizes: While the size of
    research data does not compare to those found in industry, it can
    still become large enough that it requires special care and
    handling.
-   Store data in a format that is open source, integrates with many
    tools, and is storage efficient: Sprout is first and foremost a data
    engineering tool for research data storage and distribution (or at
    least, easier sharing).

> -   Store, organize, and manage multiple, distinct data sources per user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Store, organize, and manage multiple distinct data sources per user
```
?

>     or group of users (as in a server setting): Researchers rarely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    or group of users (for example in a server setting): Researchers rarely
```
? At least the "as" confused me a bit here :)

>     collect and work on one data source over their careers or at any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    collect and work on one data source at any
```

>     given time. So Sprout must be able to handle multiple distinct data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    given time. So, Sprout must be able to handle multiple distinct data
```

    sources.

> -   Upload or update data: Data input into Sprout could happen in

Reviewer: Why "or" and not "and"?
```suggestion
-   Upload and update data: Data input into Sprout could happen in
```

> -   Upload or update data: Data input into Sprout could happen in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Upload or update data: Data can be added to Sprout could happen in
```
To avoid "input into"

    batches or on a more frequent basis. We anticipate that batch
    uploads will be the most common.
-   Store, organize, and manage metadata connected to the data: Metadata
    are vital to understanding the data and its context, without which
    data can be near useless. Sprout needs to make managing and
    organizing metadata fundamental to its functionality.
-   Track changes to the data in a changelog and versioning system: Data

>     are not static and can change over time. Sprout needs to be able to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    are not static and can change over time. Sprout must
```

    track these changes and provide a way to show, track, and manage

>     versions of the data. This also is necessary for legal compliance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    versions of the data. This is also necessary for legal compliance
```

    for auditing and record-keeping.

> Things Sprout will not do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Sprout will not:
```

> -   Analytic computing or any data science work: While there is some
>     data processing and analysis that might occur, it is only in
>     relation to running checks on the quality of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Run any analytic computing or data science work: While some
    data processing and analysis will occur, it is only in
    relation to running checks on the quality of the data and metadata.
```
